
http://www.agilelove.com/user-stories/user-story/

WHAT: 
A user story is a brief description of a desired feature, which contains enough information for the team to estimate it and potentially develop it and test it in one sprint. The typical format of a user story is as follows:
“As a <role>, I want <goal/desire> so that <benefit>”

Example:
“As a job seeker I want to add a new resume to the site so that I can apply for jobs quickly”
(Link has an image of a user story - but see comment from a Scrum Coach below)

WHO:
Anybody in the team can write user stories and add them to the product backlog but Product Owner owns the product backlog so it is expected of him to write and prioritize the user stories in the product backlog.

WHEN:
One of the first things to do right after the start of a project is to write user stories for the product to be developed and add them to the product backlog and also prioritize them. But the User stories are written throughout the life of a project.

Comments from other people (in relation to the image of a "typical user story")
(User1)
Each acceptance criteria would be a better example of a good user story.

(User2 - reply to above)
Agreed. Here’s some thoughts. Of course everyone can have different views. These are my comments regarding a few of the stories…
Create, Search, Update, Archive, Remove are each a unique user story.
“Provide a means for a CV title” is an activity of creating or updating a CV.
“Create up to 3 CVs” belongs to the create story.
“text version of CV” is an activity of of the Create or Update stories
“sign on” is a user story as well as the typical forgot user id and PW and new user…
“ensure the job seeker’s CV is stored in the CV database” is the same as the Create User story.
(Scrum Coach - reply to above)
Also, I have worked on projects where there are so many Stories that start something like “As a System User….” – it turns into a woods and trees situation.An alternative, which as a Coach I encourage, is to put the business objective first.
In Order to..
As a..
I want..
So that..
It tends to divide the backlog a little more, visually. And yes, I have seen it work better.

Take care, the below two blog posts reference to aspects of Kanban and may not be Agile!

The Definition of Ready - http://blog.xebia.com/the-definition-of-ready/
I give CSM trainings with Jeff Sutherland, and about half a year ago he had put something in his material called "the dynamic model of Scrum". The essential feature was the addition of a READY state opposite the DONE state. The idea here is that a team needs to be in a stable, known situation to be able to perform well. It immediately struck a chord with me: I had seen so many teams thrash because the Product Owner could not give them a clear objective, the READY state was exactly the goal to work to. But what was it really, and how do you get there? By now I think I've got some good answers to these questions.

What does the READY state do?

In a self-organizing team setting a clear destination it very important: self-organization does not exist if you have nothing to organize TO. The READY state prevents team thrashing by ensuring that the preconditions for a good Sprint execution have been met.

Defining READY

READY is defined by the Definition of READY. It is similar to the Definition of DONE, but with the following differences. Whereas with the Definition of DONE the "supplier" is the Team and the "client" is the Product Owner, it's the other way around with the Definition of READY: the Team is the "client" and the Product Owner is the "supplier". Even though I will detail the Definition of READY later, in the end it boils down to one statement: READY is when the team says: "Ah, we get it".
Even though you can put any precondition in the Definition of READY, the need for a good backlog overshadows all other considerations, so you'll definitely need to address two items: readiness of User Stories, and readiness of the Backlog.

When is a User Story READY?

I have found that a User Story is ready when you have answered three questions: Why?, What? and How?, it has been estimated and it is small enough.

Why?: What are the stakeholders trying to achieve? What are their goals? What is the business context? What is the Quantified Value?
What?: What is the Outcome Vision? What is the end result of the user story?
How?: What is the Implementation Strategy? What is the associated cost (story points)? Is the story small enough (story points vs. team velocity)?

Note that with answering these question I do not want to imply that you need a whole lot of documentation or artifacts. Again, it's whatever the team says it needs. If the back of a napkin suffices, go for it. If the team needs more, provide that. Note that the detail level needed must be determined per user story. Some will be business as usual, and you may suffice with a simple "I want one of those, but this time in green". Others could for instance be related to a new process in the Intensive Care ward of a hospital. You might just need a tad more there... 
I use the term "implementation strategy" to further clarify the level of detail needed. Fully specifying the How? would lead you back to waterfall, but you can't make a points estimation if the team does not have a rough idea of how they'll tackle the user story. So you go as far with specifying the implementation as is needed for a points estimation. Note that this is a natural side effect of planning poker sessions, so the easiest is to capture the outcome of that discussion along with the estimation. And I really advise that you do it, I've seen too many cases where the team wonders why they gave that user story 5 points, just two days after the planning poker session... 
In the end a User Story is READY if a team can implement it, and a Product Owner can prioritize it.

When is the Backlog READY?

The backlog is READY when about 1,5-2 Sprint's worth of User Stories at the top of the backlog is READY, and those user stories are sufficiently small to allow good team flow.

And finally, follow this mantra

Don't let anything that's not READY into your Sprint, and let nothing escape that's not DONE.

Not all backlog items are equal. A backlog item starts out as a rough sketch - usually just the As a.. I want... So That... stanza - and needs to be fleshed out to the extent that it can be picked up by the team in a Sprint. Just like a team has a basic workflow getting stuff to Done, the same applies for the Product Owner role. Scrum does not have any specific support for a Product Owner: somehow the Product Backlog just "happens". In this post I'll try to fill that gap with respect to the process that a Product Owner can follow.
I'll explain a partitioning of the backlog that maps onto a flow, the nature of those partitions and how you proceed through them to get enough stuff Ready for the team to pick up in the next Sprint.

Flow to READY - http://blog.xebia.com/flow-to-ready-iterate-to-done

The overall flow of work through a Scrum team is that the Product Owner role picks up new stuff, gets it READY, and the Team role picks it up to get it to DONE. Note that I explicitly use the word "role" here: team members have a role to play in supporting the Product Owner role to get backlog items to READY.

Partitioning the backlog

A backlog can roughly be partitioned in four areas based on the overall flow:

items that are currently in the Sprint, 
items that are Ready, 
items that you're preparing to Ready, and
the rest: new stuff.

Of course this is an idealized view of things. In practice the lines are blurred somewhat because the mapping of priority on the workflow steps is not always as clean as you’d like. New items might show up really high in priority, putting it in between the READY items. On the other hand this way of viewing the backlog could be used to enforce the prioritization: something that’s READY could by definition be prioritized higher than something that’s not.
From partitioning to flow

The fact that I've used one color for "New" and "Ready", and another for "Preparing" and "In Sprint" is not a coincidence: "New" and "Ready" are prioritized buffers, "Preparing" and "In Sprint" are Work-In-Progress. Let's go through the flow step-by-step.

Prioritized buffer: New

Backlog items in the New state are the ones you haven't started working on yet, at least not to the extent that you're getting them to READY. Even so, in practice I've seen that it's wise to perform a minimal triage on these items: if you have every mad idea on there, you'll quickly be inundated in an avalanche of items. Stakeholders tend to say "I've got a thousand ideas!", but many of them are just that: ideas. Only a small fraction are actually realistic or useful to implement. This initial triage should be kept simple, but it does put some discipline with stakeholders putting in their requirements. Don't be too worried about stakeholders complaining, in general a stakeholder will appreciate knowing what they need to do to get their requirements in :-). To be put on the backlog as New, a stakeholder should provide the following:
a story solely in terms of the business experience that describes what they experience and what they need without referring to how the product would support it
user story stanza (As a.. I want... So that...)
a (rough) valuation of benefit
a rough indication of size (i.e. cost): small, medium, large. (Note that this is best guesstimated by a team member or the product owner after a chat with the stakeholder: they have more knowledge of the product)
The business urgency gives you a rough prioritization, which enables you to decide which items to pull in first.

Work-In-Progress: Preparing

This step is the big one as far as the Product Owner is concerned: it's where the core Product Owner work gets done.
The Product Owner is the single point of contact for all stakeholders, and this is of course intentional. There needs to be a single focal point for all requirements and prioritization, otherwise it will fall back to the team role and the Product Owner role is all but useless. An unfortunate side effect for our poor Product Owner is that they constantly get bombarded with requirements and pressure from all stakeholders. The result is that a Product Owner is stretched thin trying to deal with it all. I've found that this is where the flow/kanban style really shines: explicitly limiting work in progress is one of the best tools to bringing some sanity in the Product Owner's life.
The Product Owner pulls items into the Preparing step according to capacity. Just like a team pulls in work to capacity and does not change it until the Sprint is over, a Product Owner should pull in a number of items (I've seen two per person in the Product Owner role a lot, don't know yet if that's a general thing, though), work on them until they're Ready, and only pull in new items when a "free slot" opens up in the preparing step.
The Product Owner does not need to (and in most cases can't) provide all information, but is responsible for making sure that someone does, so that the backlog item will get to Ready. This means that a Product Owner will talk with stakeholders to ask them for more information, with the Team to provide an estimation of implementation complexity, and anybody else who is needed to provide clarity and information. This is quite a job, and in larger organizations it's not unusual to see multiple people (often analists) supporting this role.
Because of the explicit step in the flow it is now possible to measure Product Owner performance. The equivalent of velocity in the flow style is cycle time: the average time needed to bring a backlog item from New to Ready. A backlog item that is stuck will be easier to recognize, since it will remain in the Preparing step longer than is usual. It also helps to plan Product Owner capacity. Comparing the cycle time with the a number of backlog items that is consumed per Sprint by the team helps to determine if the Product Owner is going fast enough to keep up.
A Product Owner's speed is not measured in a backlog item's story points but in number of backlog items because the amount of work for each item is roughly the same: every item needs its questions answered regardless of the size. Large backlog items may be more work, but in most cases they will have to be broken up into sizes that are manageable by the team. This translates into more backlog items for (originally) large ones, so large items are factored in this way.
When a backlog item is Ready it can be moved into the Ready buffer.

Prioritized buffer: The Ready Buffer

I have found it very useful to think of the list of Ready items as a buffer. A Product Owner's productivity needs to be such that this buffer is full enough when the next Sprint starts. Tracking the size of the buffer (in story points, since now the capacity of the Team is the relevant one) is a very good way to see if the Product Owner is getting into trouble. You could use a burn-down chart, a burn-up chart, or simply a continuous trend line of buffer size, but I find it a great help that a Product Owner has access to the same type of trend information that is available to Teams when they use burn-down charts.
There are two levels of Ready: each backlog item needs to be Ready, but the backlog needs to be Ready as well, just before the next Sprint. Backlog-Ready means that the Ready buffer is full enough for an iterations' worth of work, and some extra work as "spare change" in case of renegotiation, last minute decisions, insights or priority shifts. In practice going for 1.5 to 2 iterations' worth is a good target. The reverse is also true: if the buffer is really full, more than two Sprints' worth of Ready items, you're likely wasting work since reality will change before you get round to the later items in the buffer (items become "unready"), forcing extra work. In that case you it's better to increase the Team capacity or use the free time for some crystal ball gazing or market research :-).

Work-In-Progress: In Sprint

Of course this step is relatively easy to describe, this is where all the usual Scrum stuff enters the picture :-). As a Product Owner you'll track which items are In Sprint, but your work is not entirely done. In an analogy of a quote on design: "a good design does not depend on one big decision, but on hundreds of little ones", a Team will need you around to unblock them with decisions. During a Sprint a Team will come up with alternatives for details of the implementation. Often these alternatives have an impact on the end result: they might have an easy option but it will not be exactly what was asked, or a team might find a part of the implementation is harder to do than expected. In that case you need to be around to help them forward.

Summary

The backlog can be partitioned in four parts that you can connect with a flow. Since this blog post is getting long enough as it is I'll write another one on how you support this process with a Kanban board and electronic tools.

http://xp123.com/articles/invest-in-good-stories-and-smart-tasks/
(Is primarily concerning Extreme Programming but seems like good ideas and concepts regarding user stories anyway)

In XP, we think of requirements of coming in the form of user stories. It would be easy to mistake the story card for the "whole story," but Ron Jeffries points out that stories in XP have three components: Cards (their physical medium), Conversation (the discussion surrounding them), and Confirmation (tests that verify them).

A pidgin language is a simplified language, usually used for trade, that allows people who can't communicate in their native language to nonetheless work together. User stories act like this. We don't expect customers or users to view the system the same way that programmers do; stories act as a pidgin language where both sides can agree enough to work together effectively.

But what are characteristics of a good story? The acronym "INVEST" can remind you that good stories are:

I – Independent
N – Negotiable
V – Valuable
E – Estimable
S – Small
T – Testable
Independent

Stories are easiest to work with if they are independent. That is, we'd like them to not overlap in concept, and we'd like to be able to schedule and implement them in any order.

We can't always achieve this; once in a while we may say things like "3 points for the first report, then 1 point for each of the others."

Negotiable… and Negotiated

A good story is negotiable. It is not an explicit contract for features; rather, details will be co-created by the customer and programmer during development. A good story captures the essence, not the details. Over time, the card may acquire notes, test ideas, and so on, but we don't need these to prioritize or schedule stories.

Valuable

A story needs to be valuable. We don't care about value to just anybody; it needs to be valuable to the customer. Developers may have (legitimate) concerns, but these framed in a way that makes the customer perceive them as important.

This is especially an issue when splitting stories. Think of a whole story as a multi-layer cake, e.g., a network layer, a persistence layer, a logic layer, and a presentation layer. When we split a story, we're serving up only part of that cake. We want to give the customer the essence of the whole cake, and the best way is to slice vertically through the layers. Developers often have an inclination to work on only one layer at a time (and get it "right"); but a full database layer (for example) has little value to the customer if there's no presentation layer.

Making each slice valuable to the customer supports XP's pay-as-you-go attitude toward infrastructure.

Estimable

A good story can be estimated. We don't need an exact estimate, but just enough to help the customer rank and schedule the story's implementation. Being estimable is partly a function of being negotiated, as it's hard to estimate a story we don't understand. It is also a function of size: bigger stories are harder to estimate. Finally, it's a function of the team: what's easy to estimate will vary depending on the team's experience. (Sometimes a team may have to split a story into a (time-boxed) "spike" that will give the team enough information to make a decent estimate, and the rest of the story that will actually implement the desired feature.)

Small

Good stories tend to be small. Stories typically represent at most a few person-weeks worth of work. (Some teams restrict them to a few person-days of work.) Above this size, and it seems to be too hard to know what's in the story's scope. Saying, "it would take me more than a month" often implicitly adds, "as I don't understand what-all it would entail." Smaller stories tend to get more accurate estimates.

Story descriptions can be small too (and putting them on an index card helps make that happen). Alistair Cockburn described the cards as tokens promising a future conversation. Remember, the details can be elaborated through conversations with the customer.

Testable

A good story is testable. Writing a story card carries an implicit promise: "I understand what I want well enough that I could write a test for it." Several teams have reported that by requiring customer tests before implementing a story, the team is more productive. "Testability" has always been a characteristic of good requirements; actually writing the tests early helps us know whether this goal is met.

If a customer doesn't know how to test something, this may indicate that the story isn't clear enough, or that it doesn't reflect something valuable to them, or that the customer just needs help in testing.

A team can treat non-functional requirements (such as performance and usability) as things that need to be tested. Figure out how to operationalize these tests will help the team learn the true needs.

 

For all these attributes, the feedback cycle of proposing, estimating, and implementing stories will help teach the team what it needs to know.

SMART Tasks

There is an acronym for creating effective goals: "SMART" –

S – Specific
M – Measurable
A – Achievable
R – Relevant
T – Time-boxed
(There are a lot of variations in what the letters stand for.) These are good characteristics for tasks as well.

Specific

A task needs to be specific enough that everyone can understand what's involved in it. This helps keep other tasks from overlapping, and helps people understand whether the tasks add up to the full story.

Measurable

The key measure is, "can we mark it as done?" The team needs to agree on what that means, but it should include "does what it is intended to," "tests are included," and "the code has been refactored."

Achievable

The task owner should expect to be able to achieve a task. XP teams have a rule that anybody can ask for help whenever they need it; this certainly includes ensuring that task owners are up to the job.

Relevant

Every task should be relevant, contributing to the story at hand. Stories are broken into tasks for the benefit of developers, but a customer should still be able to expect that every task can be explained and justified.

Time-Boxed

A task should be time-boxed: limited to a specific duration. This doesn't need to be a formal estimate in hours or days, but there should be an expectation so people know when they should seek help. If a task is harder than expected, the team needs to know it must split the task, change players, or do something to help the task (and story) get done.

Conclusion

As you discuss stories, write cards, and split stories, the INVEST acronym can help remind you of characteristics of good stories. When creating a task plan, applying the SMART acronym can improve your tasks.
